[docs] Add documentation page for IP pinning (#23190)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/guides/ip-pinning.mdx

---

> title: "IP Pinning (Preview)"

Reviewer: I'm not sure if a _guide_ is the right format for this page.

Guides make sense when you need to outline a step-by-step process. There aren't a lot of steps for IP pinning, you just enable it in a role and it works transparently in the background.

See https://goteleport.com/docs/contributing/documentation/style-guide/#kinds-of-pages for the kinds of pages we have. I feel like a conceptual guide or reference page would be better for this type of content.

Author: I've modeled new page after `per-session MFA` page a bit, since it's kinda similar in scope and it's also not really a guide. All pages in `Cluster Access and RBAC` are located in `guides` folder, including per-session MFA, maybe we should change it. I'll check on it with docs team 👍

Teleport users can only access resources from the IP address they used during the login process. 
This helps minimize the risk of compromised credentials being used from different locations.

The IP pinning preview currently supports the
following Teleport features:

- SSH access 
- Database access 
- Kubernetes access 

Support for other access features is planned for upcoming Teleport versions.

## How it works
<Admonition type="note">
  **Observed IP** - IP of the client as seen by the Teleport systems. It can be taken from the direct connection of
  the user or given by load balancer through PROXY protocol if it's enabled.

  **Pinned IP** - IP of the client, observed during login process and embedded into user's certificates.
</Admonition>

When IP pinning is enabled for at least one of a user's roles, the IP address observed by Teleport during the login process will
 be embedded into the user's certificates. Later, whenever the user attempts to access Teleport resources, the system will compare 
 the observed IP address with the pinned IP address stored in the certificate. If the IP addresses do not match, access will be denied.

> If user's role requires IP pinning, but user's certificate that is presented to a Teleport service doesn't have pinned IP information embedded,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the user's role requires IP pinning, but the user's certificate that is presented to a Teleport service doesn't have pinned IP information embedded,
```

> access will be denied. It means if you enable IP pinning for some role, any already logged in user with that role will have to re-login in
> order to regenerate their certificates. Client's observed IP will be propagated internally between Teleport services
>  if needed, so IP pinning check could be performed against correct IP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
access will be denied. This means that if you enable IP pinning for some role, any users that are already authenticated with that role will have to log in again in
order to regenerate their certificates. A client's observed IP will be propagated internally between Teleport services
 if needed, so Teleport performs the IP pinning check against the correct IP.
```

> IP pinning can work across trusted clusters, but be aware that if user tries to access leaf cluster's resources through root cluster, and their

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IP pinning can work across Trusted Clusters, but be aware that if a user tries to access a leaf cluster's resources through the root cluster, and their
```

> mapped role on the leaf cluster has IP pinning enabled, they should also have IP pinning enabled on their root cluster roles, in order for their 
> certificates to contain pinned IP information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
mapped role on the leaf cluster has IP pinning enabled, they should also have IP pinning enabled on their root cluster roles. Otherwise, their 
certificates will not contain pinned IP information.
```
To break up this sentence a bit

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

## Configure IP Pinning

To enable IP pinning, update the role to contain `pin_source_ip` option:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v6
metadata:
  name: example-role-with-ip-pinning
spec:
  options:
    # require IP pinning for this role
    pin_source_ip: true
  allow:
    ...
  deny:
    ...
```

### Role example

Let's walk through an example of setting up IP pinning for a role.

Teleport admin adds a role that enforces IP pinning for users.

```yaml
# pinned-ip.yaml
kind: role
version: v6
metadata:
  name: pinned-ip
spec:
  options:
    pin_source_ip: true
```

> Admin assigns this role to the user Alice, who then logs into Teleport using the 'tsh' command and tries 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The admin assigns this role to the user Alice, who then logs into Teleport using the 'tsh' command and tries 
```

> to access a node from the same IP address she logged in with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to access a node from the same IP address she logged in with:
```

```code
$ curl ifconfig.me

# 198.51.111.1

$ tsh ssh telenode.example.com

# alice@telenode.example.com >
```

> It is successful and isn't different from any other time Alice accessed a node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As with Alice's usual attempts to access a node, this one is successful.
```
